skills/ui-design.md, before:

---
title: User Interface Design
description: This is a skill on User Interface Design
tags:
  - software-design
layout: layouts/skill.njk
---

# Name of Skill
User Interface Design

# Classification of Skill
Software Design Process

# Prerequisites for Skill
A person should have these skills to be a good UI designer:

1. Understanding of user requirements, Creative thinking, Logic and Reasoning, Attention to the details
2. Prototyping tools, Design software, HTML, CSS
3. Fundamental knowledge about UI design Principals
4. Fundamental Knowledge regarding the Basic elements in User Interface Design such as Color, Typography and Shape theory.
5. Understanding of various software architecture models and principals

# Related Software Engineering Area(s)
- Software Testing - Usability Tasting
- User Experience Design (User Interface design is part of it)

# Rationale for Skill
- The user interface is the front-end application view to which user interacts in order to use the software.
- The goal of user interface design is to make the user's interaction as simple and efficient as possible, in terms of accomplishing user goals (user-centred design).

# Roles for Skill
- UI designer 
- UI/UX designer
- Product designer
- Front-end developer

# Work Related to Skill (Related Activities and Artifacts)
1. Graphics User Interface designing for devices of different platforms 
2. Prototyping of actual software to be developed to verify the and reevaluate the requirements
3. The manifestation of user flow and user interaction in various aspects of the software
 
# Real-World Example/Scenario of Skill (Text, Graphic, Audio, Video)
1. Google’s Material Design - https://material.io/  - Build beautiful products, faster.
2. Best UI design scenarios which follow modern design approach https://medium.com/@tristaljing/26-best-interactive-ui-design-examples-for-your-inspiration-in-2019-c1d8106338f8
3. 	UI design importance - New Gmail vs. Old Gmail Ui design Case study - https://medium.com/@madhurihebbal/gmail-redesign-and-the-ux-5f2d81b62a7a

# Role of Academia or Industry in Cultivating the Skill
Academics(course/subjects) have provided proper guideline principals and standards that should be followed in UI design.Fundamental theoretical knowledge of designing is essential to make good UI design. 

Modernization in the User interface
design by the industries and new behaviour acceptance from the general users are reasons for the continuous chnages design trends. 

# Tools Supporting the Skill
- Figma
- Adobe Photoshop
- Sketch
- Adobe XD
- esktop Web Browsers applications

# Skill Self-Assessment (My Skill Score (1 – 10) and Reasons for Self-Assigned Score)
8

**Reason:**

Any software can be considered as successful if it fulfils its main function for the general users efficiently and effectively. User Experience is the main aspect which involves user satisfaction for using the software and User interface design is a very crucial part of it. 

UI design can make or break the user base of software. It creates fewer problems, increases user involvement, perfects functionality and creates a strong link between your customers and your software.

Thus, the given skill score justified with this importance.


# References 
1. [SWEBOK3](https://users.encs.concordia.ca/~kamthan/courses/soen-6011/project/SWEBOK3.pdf)
2. [The Importance of User Interface Design](https://www.plego.com/blog/importance-user-interface-design/#:~:text=Simply%20put%2C%20User%20Interface%20Design,your%20customers%20and%20your%20website)
3. [User Interface Design - wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface_design)
4. [Interactive UI Design Examples]()https://medium.com/@tristaljing/26-best-interactive-ui-design-examples-for-your-inspiration-in-2019-c1d8106338f8

Commit message:

Description is changed in UI design skill

skills/ui-design.md, after:

---
title: User Interface Design
description: User interface is the front-end application view to which user interacts in order to use the software.
tags:
  - software-design
layout: layouts/skill.njk
---

# Name of Skill
User Interface Design

# Classification of Skill
Software Design Process

# Prerequisites for Skill
A person should have these skills to be a good UI designer:

1. Understanding of user requirements, Creative thinking, Logic and Reasoning, Attention to the details
2. Prototyping tools, Design software, HTML, CSS
3. Fundamental knowledge about UI design Principals
4. Fundamental Knowledge regarding the Basic elements in User Interface Design such as Color, Typography and Shape theory.
5. Understanding of various software architecture models and principals

# Related Software Engineering Area(s)
- Software Testing - Usability Tasting
- User Experience Design (User Interface design is part of it)

# Rationale for Skill
- The user interface is the front-end application view to which user interacts in order to use the software.
- The goal of user interface design is to make the user's interaction as simple and efficient as possible, in terms of accomplishing user goals (user-centred design).

# Roles for Skill
- UI designer 
- UI/UX designer
- Product designer
- Front-end developer

# Work Related to Skill (Related Activities and Artifacts)
1. Graphics User Interface designing for devices of different platforms 
2. Prototyping of actual software to be developed to verify the and reevaluate the requirements
3. The manifestation of user flow and user interaction in various aspects of the software
 
# Real-World Example/Scenario of Skill (Text, Graphic, Audio, Video)
1. Google’s Material Design - https://material.io/  - Build beautiful products, faster.
2. Best UI design scenarios which follow modern design approach https://medium.com/@tristaljing/26-best-interactive-ui-design-examples-for-your-inspiration-in-2019-c1d8106338f8
3. 	UI design importance - New Gmail vs. Old Gmail Ui design Case study - https://medium.com/@madhurihebbal/gmail-redesign-and-the-ux-5f2d81b62a7a

# Role of Academia or Industry in Cultivating the Skill
Academics(course/subjects) have provided proper guideline principals and standards that should be followed in UI design.Fundamental theoretical knowledge of designing is essential to make good UI design. 

Modernization in the User interface
design by the industries and new behaviour acceptance from the general users are reasons for the continuous chnages design trends. 

# Tools Supporting the Skill
- Figma
- Adobe Photoshop
- Sketch
- Adobe XD
- esktop Web Browsers applications

# Skill Self-Assessment (My Skill Score (1 – 10) and Reasons for Self-Assigned Score)
8

**Reason:**

Any software can be considered as successful if it fulfils its main function for the general users efficiently and effectively. User Experience is the main aspect which involves user satisfaction for using the software and User interface design is a very crucial part of it. 

UI design can make or break the user base of software. It creates fewer problems, increases user involvement, perfects functionality and creates a strong link between your customers and your software.

Thus, the given skill score justified with this importance.


# References 
1. [SWEBOK3](https://users.encs.concordia.ca/~kamthan/courses/soen-6011/project/SWEBOK3.pdf)
2. [The Importance of User Interface Design](https://www.plego.com/blog/importance-user-interface-design/#:~:text=Simply%20put%2C%20User%20Interface%20Design,your%20customers%20and%20your%20website)
3. [User Interface Design - wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface_design)
4. [Interactive UI Design Examples]()https://medium.com/@tristaljing/26-best-interactive-ui-design-examples-for-your-inspiration-in-2019-c1d8106338f8
